INC-003 — Active Directory Domain Trust Relationship Failure

Ticket Information

- Category: Active Directory / Domain Login
- Affected Device: CLIENT01
- Environment: Windows Client / Active Directory
- Domain: lab.local
- Severity: High
- Status: Resolved

User Report

The user was unable to log in to CLIENT01 because the workstation's trust relationship with the domain was broken.

Symptom

Windows displayed the following message:

"The security database on the server does not have a computer account for this workstation trust relationship."

Information Gathering

Checked whether CLIENT01 had a corresponding computer account in Active Directory.

PowerShell command:

Get-ADComputer -Identity "CLIENT01"

The computer account was not found.

Checked the available computer accounts:

Get-ADComputer -Filter * | Select-Object Name

CLIENT01 was missing from the Active Directory computer accounts.

Root Cause

The CLIENT01 computer account was missing from Active Directory, and the workstation was unable to establish a valid trust relationship with the domain controller.

Resolution

Created the CLIENT01 computer account in the correct Organizational Unit:

OU=Office,OU=Computers,OU=Company,DC=lab,DC=local

Restored the workstation's network connection to the domain controller.

The secure channel was repaired and the domain trust relationship was restored.

Verification

Verified that CLIENT01 could communicate with the domain controller.

The user was able to access domain resources again, including the HR shared folder.

Troubleshooting Flow

SYMPTOM → Domain login failed with a trust relationship error

INFORMATION GATHERING → Checked CLIENT01 computer account in Active Directory

HYPOTHESIS → Computer account or secure channel problem

TEST → Get-ADComputer confirmed CLIENT01 was missing

ROOT CAUSE → CLIENT01 computer account was missing and domain communication was unavailable

FIX → Recreated the computer account, restored network connectivity, and repaired the domain trust

VERIFY → Domain resources were accessible and the user successfully accessed the HR share
